IBX-6878: Global Search Enhancements (#238)
ibexa/documentation-user: docs/search/search_for_content.md

---

# Search for content

You can enter a search keyword and the application checks all the searchable Fields and returns a list of search results that contain the keyword.

![Basic Search](img/basic_search.png)

> Everywhere in the Back Office, completion suggestions are proposed while typing in the search box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everywhere in the Back Office, completion suggestions are proposed while you type in the search box.
```

In addition to clicking in it, you can also focus on the search bar using the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl+/` on Windows/Linux, or `Cmd+/` on macOS.

> If a suggestion is what you're looking for, click on it in the suggestion drop-down, or use `down` and `up` keys to highlight it, then press enter to open it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- If a suggestion is what you're looking for, to use it, click on it in the suggestion drop-down, or use `down` and `up` keys to highlight it, and then press the `Enter` key.
```

> If no suggestion correspond to your search, press `Enter` key or click "View all results".

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- If no suggestion corresponds to your search, press the `Enter` key or click **View all results**.
```

![Suggestion drop-down](img/suggestion.png)

> If several languages are available, you can select a language to search in at the top of the left **Filters** menu.

Author: @dabrt You're right, it would be safer, as the context was set to "Everywhere in the Back Office" earlier.

```suggestion
On the results page, if several languages are available, you can select a language to search in at the top of the left **Filters** menu.
```

---

# Search for content

You can enter a search keyword and the application checks all the searchable Fields and returns a list of search results that contain the keyword.

![Basic Search](img/basic_search.png)

Everywhere in the Back Office, completion suggestions are proposed while typing in the search box.
In addition to clicking in it, you can also focus on the search bar using the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl+/` on Windows/Linux, or `Cmd+/` on macOS.
If a suggestion is what you're looking for, click on it in the suggestion drop-down, or use `down` and `up` keys to highlight it, then press enter to open it.
If no suggestion correspond to your search, press `Enter` key or click "View all results".

![Suggestion drop-down](img/suggestion.png)

> If several languages are available, you can select a language to search in at the top of the left "Filters" menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If several languages are available, you can select a language to search in at the top of the left **Filters** menu.
```

The results contain Content items that are translated into this language.
The result list also shows which languages the Content item is translated to.

> [More about this Filters menu below](#filtered-search).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

By default, the results are sorted by decreasing relevance. Thanks to the drop-down menu on top-right, you can sort them by name, publication date, or modification date.

![Sorting menu](img/sorting_menu.png)

## Filtered search

Filtered search allows you to filter by:

> - Language (if there is several languages)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Language (if more than one language available)
```

> - Content Type

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Content type
```

- Modified date
- Created date
- Creator
- Section
- Subtree

> All new or custom Content Types, Sections and Languages are automatically added to the drop-down filter lists.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All new or custom content types, sections and languages are automatically added to the drop-down filter lists.
```

> A Content item count is indicated between parenthesis for Content Type and section filters (if your search engine allows faceting, unlike the Legacy one).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Content item count is indicated between parenthesis for content type and section filters (if your search engine allows faceting, unlike the Legacy one).
```

> Select your filters then click "Apply" button to update results accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select your filters, then click **Apply** button to update results accordingly.
```

---

# Search for content

You can enter a search keyword and the application checks all the searchable Fields and returns a list of search results that contain the keyword.

TODO: Update following screenshot to have the sorting menu visible and several translations.

![Basic Search](img/basic_search.png)

Everywhere in the Back Office, completion suggestions are proposed while typing in the search box.
If a suggestion is what you're looking for, click on it in the suggestion drop-down.

> If no suggestion correspond to your search, press Enter key or click "View all results".

Author: TODO: Add keyboard navigation, up & down

Reviewer 3: and `ctrl + /` (win, linux) | `cmd + /` (mac) shortcats to active search

Author: Done in e7ee4eada53c507440bf465a76bbff54705194e2

---

# Search for content

You can enter a search keyword and the application checks all the searchable Fields and returns a list of search results that contain the keyword.

![Basic Search](img/basic_search.png)

Everywhere in the Back Office, completion suggestions are proposed while you type in the search box.

> In addition to clicking in it, you can also move focus to search bar using the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl+/` on Windows/Linux, or `Cmd+/` on macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to clicking in the search box, you can also move focus to it by using the keyboard shortcut `Ctrl+/` on Windows/Linux, or `Cmd+/` on macOS.
```

- If a suggestion is what you're looking for, to use it, click on it in the suggestion drop-down, or use `down` and `up` keys to highlight it, and then press the `Enter` key.

- If no suggestion corresponds to your search, press the `Enter` key or click **View all results**.

![Suggestion drop-down](img/suggestion.png)

If several languages are available, you can select a language to search in at the top of the left **Filters** menu.
The results contain Content items that are translated into this language.
The result list also shows which languages the Content item is translated to.

> By default, the results are sorted by decreasing relevance. 

Author: ```suggestion
By default, the results are sorted by decreasing relevance.
```

By selecting an option from a drop-down menu in the top right corner, you can sort them by name, publication date, or modification date.

![Sorting menu](img/sorting_menu.png)

## Filtered search

Filtered search allows you to filter by:

- Language (if more than one language available)
- Content type
- Modified date
- Created date
- Creator
- Section
- Subtree

All new or custom content types, sections and languages are automatically added to the drop-down filter lists.

> A Content item count is indicated between parenthesis for content type and section filters (if your search engine allows faceting, unlike the Legacy one).

Reviewer: Here, instead of parenthesis that says "if your search engine allows faceting, unlike the Legacy one" I'd say something like "Depending on the system configuration, a Content item count can be indicated for content type and section filters."
End users may not know what faceted means and what search engine is used in their installation.

Author: You're right, this is use doc.
```suggestion
Depending on the system configuration, a Content item count can be indicated for content type and section filters.
```
